# Masculine and Feminine Writing in Atomic Bomb Literature: A Sentiment Analysis Approach
This is a repository for the abstract for the JADH 2024 annual conference. <br><br>

## Introduction
This research employs sentiment analysis (SA) to explore a corpus of Japanese Atomic Bomb Literature (*genbaku bungaku*), aiming to unveil gendered writing strategies among its authors. Atomic Bomb Literature, reflecting on the tragic events of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, represents a distinct literary movement where female voices are not only prominent but also pivotal in shaping the genre. This segment of Japanese literature, featuring works by well-known and lesser-known authors such as Hara Tamiki, Ota Yoko, Sato Ineko, Ida Momo, and Ariyoshi Sawako, closely aligns with military fiction by sharing the grim wartime experiences. This connection to military fiction renders the analytical frameworks of feminist military fiction criticism relevant to texts authored by women in genbaku bungaku. In the 1990s, P. Lassner and M. Higonnet reevaluated the roles of women in war literature, noting a shift of the focus from the ‘battlefront’ to the ‘homefront.’ They emphasized survival and caregiving, contrasting with traditional masculine ideals of warfare. I hypothesize that this caregiving strategy may be observed in the relations between characters' and authors' speech within the literary texts. Specifically, a female author may tend to shield the characters from expressing or experiencing negative emotions related to war and the atomic bombings by isolating these emotions within the authorial speech. Formally, this hypothesis suggests that the sentiment score of the characters’ speech will be more positive than that of the author's narrative. Consequently, this research investigates whether it is possible to categorize genbaku bungaku authors along gender lines based on the differences in sentiment scores between characters’ and authors’ speech.<br><br>

## Repository Structure
Please, look *main.ipynb* in which the results of the analysis are present (majorly, the visualization of the data). The process of preprossesing data, extracting of the direct and authorial speech, testing Oseti against VADER is documented in Notebooks in *drafts* folder. The data, used for the analysis (sentiment scores per every literary piece), datasets and visualizations are in *data* folder. Due to the copirihth restrictions, this repository does not contain the OCRed texts, except for minor extractions for testing Oseti and VADER performance in *speech samplings* folder.

## Note on installation of the required packages
Please, notice that latest (April 2024) version of Oseti works properly (without manual fixing) with Bunkai 1.5.7. To install this Bunkai version, create Python 3.11 environment.